Hi, I am Michalis and this is Iron Sharpen's Iron.
One challenge that often makes me nervous is when I've prepared an introduction, I've
planned the conversation, but the householder doesn't follow the plan and I have to adapt.
Have you ever had that experience?
This could mean that what we prepared just won't work.
So we're going to discuss four tips that have helped me and hopefully will help you be
more adaptable.
The four tips are one, know your territory, two, make use of the teaching toolbox, three,
anticipate common objections or questions and four, be flexible adjust to the householder's
needs because remember this is meant to be a conversation, not a sermon or a sales pitch.
Now let's look at a situation where applying these four suggestions can help.
So what introduction are you using?
I thought I would talk about economic problems.
Hmm, good idea and it really suits the territory, thanks.
I'll read Isaiah 65-21-23 and then offer the kingdom tract.
Perfect, I'll get the scripture ready.
Excellent.
Good morning.
Many people in our area struggle to make ends meet.
Do you think there will ever be a time when we won't have to stress about money?
Actually, now isn't a good time.
I just received some bad news.
I'm sorry.
We'll come back another time then.
Thank you.
Okay, our sister applied our first two tips really well.
But our sisters are usually excellent when it comes to the ministry.
So no real surprises there.
Did you notice?
First, she knew her territory well and had a presentation designed specifically for it.
Second, her scripture and talking point were taken from the tract,
what is the kingdom of God?
Which as you know, is part of our teaching toolbox.
However, when the householder had something else on her mind,
our sister opted to return later.
That could be a good decision in this kind of situation.
But let's see what would happen.
If she were to ask just one more question and adapt according to the householder's response.
Actually, now isn't a good time.
I just received some bad news.
I'm sorry.
Is there anything we can do to help?
No.
I just heard my sister's cancer.
Oh, that must be so difficult for your sister
and for you.
Yes, when someone we love is suffering, we can often feel helpless.
That's exactly how I feel.
If you have a moment, could I show you something that I find comforting
about a time in the near future when our loved ones will never suffer again?
Hmm, I'd like that.
Notice what the Bible says at Revelation 21 verses 3 and 4.
With that, I heard a loud voice from the Throne saying,
wow, did you see how she was able to offer this woman real comfort just by being adaptable?
All it took was one simple question.
Is there anything we can do to help?
She was sincere and friendly and the householder responded.
At that point, our sister applied our third tip.
She obviously was familiar with some common anxieties of ones in that territory because
she smoothly transitioned to the topic of suffering, which allowed her to listen to
the householders' real concern and then implement our fourth tip.
She adjusted to meet those needs.
Plus, she didn't struggle to find information to use.
She stayed right there in her teaching toolbox.
Granted, not every situation will be as straightforward as this, and it takes time and experience
to get comfortable moving from one topic to another.
But if we apply our four tips, know your territory.
Make use of the teaching toolbox.
Try to anticipate common objections or questions and then adjust to the householder's needs.
By applying these, we'll find very quickly that we're having meaningful conversations
and are able to share targeted truths with those most in need.
As always, these are just a few techniques that have worked for me and I hope they work
for you.
Remember, part of the beauty of our ministry is that we continue to sharpen one another.